# Domain 4: Billing and Pricing
# (4A: Accounts, Billing, Pricing, and Support Tiers)

## Types of Pricing
  * ### Pay-as-you-Go
    * Easily adapts to business needs.
    * Adaption is based on needs, not forecasts.
    * Improved responsiveness to change.
    * Reduces risk of overpositioning of missing capacity.
  * ### Save when you Reserve
    * Invest in reserved capacity for 75% discount over the pay-as-you-go model.
    * The more you pay upfront, the greater the discount.   
  * ### Pay Less by Using More
    * Pay less using volume based discounts.
    * Tiered pricing means the more you use, the lower the unit pricing.

 ## EC2 Pricing Models
  * ### On-Demand
    * Standard rate, no discount.
    * Good for short-term testing and unpredictable workloads.
  * ### Reserved Instance (RI)
    * Requires 1-3 year commitment.
    * Up to 75% discount
    * Good for steady-state, predictable workloads that cannot be interrupted.
  * ### Spot Instances
    * Bid for instances.
    * Up to 90% discount.
    * Can be interrupted and terminated at any time (2 minute warning provided by AWS).
    * Good for workloads with flexible start/stop times.
  * ### Dedicated Instances
    * Dedicated hosts with dedicated instances just for you (physical and virtual isolation).
    * You do not have insight or telemetry on core sockets or host affinity of the underlying hardware.
    * Billed per instance.
  * ### Dedicated Hosts
    * Underlying host hardware reserved jsut for you.
    * Gain telemetry on underlying hardware layer including sockets and host affinity.
    * Pay per host - most expensive option.
  * ### Savngs Plans
    * Commitment to a consistent amount of usage (EC2 + Fargate + Lambda).
    * 1-3 year commitment.
    * Pay be the hour.

## S3 Pricing
  * ### Storage Class
    * Priced by storage class (i.e., standard vs. IA vs. Glacier).
  * ### Storage Quantity
    * Priced by amount of data volume stored in your buckets (charge per GB).
  * ### Number of Requests
    * The number and type of requests to move between storag classes including **Lifecycle Transition Requests** where objects are automatically moved to different tiers based on usage/activity.
  * ### Data Transfer
    * Data transferred out of an S3 **Region** is billed.

## EBS Pricing
  * ### Volumes
    * EBS is charged by **volume** not storage or usage.
  * ### Snapshots
    * Snapshots are charged based on how much space they take up in S3 (recall that snapshots are stored in S3).
             
## Amazon RDS Pricing
  * ### Server Uptime
    * Clocks hours of server uptime - the amount of time the DB server is up and running = amount billed.
  * ### DB Characteristics
    * Billed based on type of database engine used, it's size, and the memory class.
  * ### Purchase Type
    * Also billed based on how the DB is hosted (e.g., On-Demand, Reserved Instance, etc.). 

## Amazon DynamoDB
  * ### Basic Charges
    * Charged for reading, writing, and storing data.
  * ### On-Demand Capacity Mode
    * Charged for reads and writes to the DB.
    * Specifying capacity is not necessary.
    * This option is good for unpredictable workloads when using DynamoDB.
  * ### Provisioned Capacity Mode
    * Can specify the number of reads and writes per second.
    * Can use auto-scaling.
    * This option is best for predictable workloads.

## AWS Lambda
  * Charged based on the number of requests.
  * Charged on the duration of the request (rounded up to the nearest millisecond) - recall Lambda functions can only run up to 15 minutes.
  * Price is allocated to the amount of memory dedicated to your Lambda function.

## AWS Organizations
  * Allows **Consolidated Billing**, which has the following benefits:
    * **One Bill:** you get one bill for all of your AWS accounts at not extra cost.
    * Easy tracking - you can track the charges across multiple accounts.
    * Combined usage - you can combine usage across all accounts and get a discount based on aggregate usage.

## AWS Cost Explorer (Visualize and Analyze Costs)
  * AWS Cost Explorer enables you to visualize, understand, and manage your AWS spending and usage over time.
  * It provides an interface for creating custom reports **(Cost and Usage Report (CUR)** that analyze cost and usage data at a high level (e.g., total costs and usage across all accounts) or at a highly granular level (e.g., daily spending for a specific service or tag).
  * This is a **free tool**.
  * **Price List API:** allows you to query the cost of AWS services.

## AWS Budgets (Set Alerts)
  * ### Custom Budgets
    * Set custom usage and reservation budgets.  
  * ### Configure Alerts
    * You can set alerts and recieve notifications when you are about to exceed your budget.
  * ### Integrations
    * Integrated with with other AWS services and includes:
      * Cost Explorer
      * Chatbot
      * Service Catalog    



   



